In Year of Bright and Bleak Spots, Room for Surprise in Tennis Back in January, Juan Martín del Potro was ranked No. 1,041 and Maria Sharapova had ju
st reached the quarterfinals of another Australian Open, with all of her sponsors in tow. Only a time traveler could have predicted then that del Potr
o would finish the season on Sunday on the highest note possible and that Sharapova would finish it with no ranking at all after being penalized and s
uspended for using the newly banned drug meldonium. It was that kind of tennis year: an uncommon brew of the deeply troubling and the deeply reaffirmi
ng. There were concerns about widespread matchfixing, particularly at the game's lower professional levels. All too aware of the credibility crises af
flicting the global governing bodies of soccer and track and field, tennis's leaders agreed under duress in January to authorize an independent review
 of the sport's integrity and make the exceptional commitment to adopt all of the review panel's recommendations when they are issued in 2017. There w
as also concern about tennis's lessthanexemplary antidoping efforts in the past and about the leadership and structure of its current antidoping effor
t. Sport really is a very simple business model, said Chris Kermode, the executive chairman and president of the ATP, in a recent interview. It relies
 on caring who wins over someone else, and it has to be real. Keeping it real, or more precisely keeping it fair, has proved quite a longrunning chall
enge for the sports world. Tennis, one of the most international games, has surely not been immune, but there was ample evidence in 2016 that the game
's power brokers were at least communicating more regularly even weekly about solutions. Sometimes you need something like this to make that happen, K
ermode said, referring to the matchfixing allegations. There was also plenty of evidence that people for now still cared who won and who lost. Angeliq
ue Kerber's unexpected rise to Australian Open champion, United States Open champion and world No. 1 made her a genuine star in Germany. Monica Puig's
 stunning gold medal in singles at the Summer Olympics in Rio led to an islandwide celebration in her homeland, Puerto Rico. Andy Murray's best season
 yet nine titles, including an Olympic gold in singles took him to a new level in Britain and in the rankings, where he edged past Novak Djokovic and 
became the last member of the supergroup known as the Big Four to reach No. 1. A prominent member of that group, Roger Federer, had an injurymarred se
ason in which he played little and dropped out of the top 10, generating both oldfashioned handwringing and newfangled social media angst. But no one 
produced raw emotion quite as effectively as del Potro, the great lost talent of the men's game who somehow returned to prominence in the second half 
of 2016 even without the bigbang backhand that was once quite an acoustic complement to his thunderous forehand. Del Potro made his first unexpected m
ove by upsetting Stan Wawrinka in the second round of Wimbledon; made another in upsetting Djokovic and Rafael Nadal on his way to a silver medal in s
ingles in Rio; and then capped it all by leading Argentina to its first Davis Cup title after a 93year wait. Argentina had to win all four of its matc
hes on the road in 2016. In the semifinals, del Potro upset Murray in a fiveset, fivehour classic in Glasgow. In the final, del Potro won both of his 
singles matches in Zagreb, Croatia, defeating Ivo Karlovic on Friday and then rallying from a twoset deficit in singles for the first time in his care
er to defeat Marin Cilic in five sets on Sunday. After beating Cilic, which leveled the final at 22, del Potro was in tears and pointed to his chest t
o indicate that his heart had played as critical a role on Sunday as his postoperation wrists. He might also have pointed to his left pinkie finger, w
hich he broke in the fifth set while blocking a missed Cilic serve with his hand. I don't know much about fingers, but when it comes to wrists, I can 
tell you plenty, del Potro said later after his lesserknown teammate Federico Delbonis had beaten Karlovic in straight sets to secure the 32 victory f
or Argentina. Davis Cup has lost its mojo in the United States, the nation that founded the competition in 1900, but it remains a shiny object of grea
t desire in some other tennis nations. Consider the beginning of a frontpage story in Argentina's La Nación newspaper after Sunday's victory: This wa
s at the same level as the great conquests of Argentine sport, up there with the World Cups of soccer in 1978 and 1986, the gold medal in basketball a
t the 2004 Summer Olympics and the five world championships won in Formula One by Juan Manuel Fangio. That must sound like hyperbole to the many North
 Americans, but the cheers from the sizable Argentine contingent were loud, clear and real in soldout Arena Zagreb, which had many wondering why the I
nternational Tennis Federation, which runs the Davis Cup, is considering a shift in format for 2018. Instead of having one of the finalists host futur
e finals, the I.T.F. would select the site well in advance Super Bowl style in an attempt to help visibility, planning and, above all, revenue (succes
sful bidding cities would presumably pay a rights fee). Prominent players, including Djokovic and Cilic, oppose the change, fearing it will rob the ev
ent of its unique atmosphere. The move requires approval from the I.T.F.'s member nations next year, but David Haggerty, the I.T.F. president, said on
 Monday that if a change is made, preserving a partisan atmosphere is a top priority. What would keep me up at night is making sure I in no way hurt t
he history and heritage that makes Davis Cup so different, he said in a telephone interview from Zagreb. To that end, I.T.F. marketers are now using t
he term fixed final instead of neutral final to describe the change.