For Deaf Tennis Player, Sound Is No Barrier ASAN, South Korea To improve its chances in the boys' team tennis event at the National Sports Festival he
re, Mapo High School in Seoul brought in a ringer from Jecheon, two hours southeast of the capital. His name was Lee Duckhee, and he had first caught 
the coach's eye when he was in elementary school. Mapo High's players pressed against the fence along the dusty hardcourts and chanted their support w
hile Lee crushed forehand winners past his bespectacled opponent in the final. The 61, 61 victory took little time no surprise, given that Lee is the 
best teenage player in South Korea, and a professional who is ranked 143rd in the world. Seeing the level of skill, power and returning is totally dif
ferent than high school level, said Jeong Yeongsok, his doubles partner at the tournament. But even among the game's elite, Lee, 18, is exceptional. H
e is deaf, and no deaf player in the sport's professional era has reached these heights. In tennis, simply seeing the ball is believed to be insuffici
ent. Hearing the ball, the top players say, enables faster reactions a crucial advantage in a sport where blazingly fast serves and powerful groundstr
okes mean that even the tiniest fraction of a second matters. There are so many different spins in tennis, and I can hear a lot of them coming off som
eone's racket because I know what they all sound like, said Katie Mancebo, a college tennis coach and volunteer coach for the United States deaf tenni
s team. But a deaf player doesn't know that sound, so they have to focus more on what the other person is doing, how they're making contact, and what 
the ball looks like as it's coming over the net. Joo Hyunsang, the tennis coach at Mapo High School, said he had initially been skeptical of Lee's pot
ential. When I met him the first time, I had certain doubts that being deaf would prevent him from being a great player, he said. But I grew confident
 from watching him develop and improve. I was very confident he could do it. Though already the secondhighestranked player of professionals 18 and und
er, Lee has become a breakout star. He has yet to play a maindraw match at an ATP tournament or a Grand Slam, though he reached the final of a Challen
ger event, the level below the ATP World Tour, for the first time in September in Taiwan, and has made two semifinals since. But if he continues to ri
se, Lee will debunk much of what is understood about the intricacies of tennis. Studies have shown that humans react more quickly to an auditory stimu
lus than a visual one. According to research compiled by the National Institutes of Health last year, the mean reaction time to visual stimuli is 1802
00 milliseconds, and 140160 milliseconds for auditory stimuli. At Wimbledon in 2003, Andy Roddick said that his first reaction to an opponent's shots 
comes from his hearing, as does his initial information about the shot coming toward him. You can hear how hard someone hits a ball, Roddick said. If 
they hit it hard and flat, it really makes a popping sound. That's maybe one of the first things that tells you rather than actually seeing the ball. 
Like trying the drop shot, all of a sudden, I hear it not come off the racket. It's part of the reaction process. I think you need to hear the ball pr
etty clearly to play at your highest level. Todd Perry, an Australian former doubles player who works as a coach, said that he often listens to his pl
ayers' shots to hear how strokes can be improved.