Andy Murray Beats ErrorProne Novak Djokovic to Retain No. 1 Ranking LONDON As Andy Murray closed in this fall on Novak Djokovic's run of more than two
 years at No. 1 and then overtook him this month, one thing was missing: a punctuating win over Djokovic, his toughest and longest rival. The two had 
not met since June 5, when Djokovic defeated Murray in the French Open final to complete a career Grand Slam. You can only beat who you're playing aga
inst, the topranked Murray said on the eve of Sunday's winnertakeall showdown against Djokovic at the ATP World Tour Finals. Murray's convincing 63, 6
4 win in front of 17,800 boisterous fans at the O2 Arena gave him the signature victory he craved, as well as his first World Tour Finals title. It en
sured that he would end 2016 holding the top ranking for the first time, no small feat in an era of historic greats. Djokovic, Roger Federer and Rafae
l Nadal have taken turns holding the No. 1 slot over the past 12 years. Andy Roddick, in 2003, was the last player other than those three to end the s
eason at No. 1. Murray and his older brother, Jamie, also became the first siblings to rank No. 1 in singles and as part of a doubles team to end the 
year. Jamie and his Brazilian partner, Bruno Soares, clinched the top ranking on Friday. Although Djokovic had fresher legs, Murray's unrelenting resi
lience, peaking confidence and dictating baseline play ruled the day. I'm happy to get the win today and finish the year No. 1, Murray said on the cou
rt shortly after Djokovic's forehand return sailed long on his third match point, which denied him a fifth consecutive crown and extended Murray's unb
eaten streak to 24 matches. It's very special, and something I never expected. Few did. In the first half of the season, Djokovic had looked nearly in
vincible, squelching Murray and everyone else on the sport's biggest stages. He had won three of the two players' four meetings during that time, in t
he finals of the Australian Open, the French Open and the Madrid Open. Murray notched a straightset win in the title match in Rome. Djokovic looked as
 if he was on course for the first true Grand Slam by a man since Rod Laver's in 1969. But Murray, a sometimes grouchy, selfcritical player who had be
come a father in February, pushed himself to the verge of the top spot during a spectacular second half. After splitting in June with his coach, Amél
ie Mauresmo, Murray rehired his former coach, the nononsense Ivan Lendl. Their chemistry worked, and Murray won Wimbledon and a gold medal in singles 
at the Rio Olympics, both for the second time. Lendl had helped guide Murray to his first two major titles, at the 2012 United States Open and at Wimb
ledon the next year. After falling in the United States Open quarterfinals to Kei Nishikori, Murray went on a tear. He won titles in Beijing, Shanghai
, Vienna and Paris, where he ended Djokovic's 122week run at No. 1 and ascended to the top spot for the first time on Nov 7. Djokovic, meanwhile, was 
uncharacteristically wobbly. He lost in the third round at Wimbledon to Sam Querrey, in the first round at the Olympics to Juan Martín del Potro and 
in the United States Open final to Stan Wawrinka. His last tournament win was at the Rogers Cup in July. On Sunday, Djokovic said he had suffered a le
tdown after finally winning the French Open, and he called the last few months far from ideal. I needed some time to really take it all in, digest it,
 he said. If little separated Murray and Djokovic before Sunday, freshness was not it. Murray had logged nearly 10 hours on the court in London, inclu
ding the two longest threeset contests of 2016. He already had played a tourhigh 86 matches, with 77 wins. He needed 3 hours 21 minutes to defeat Nish
ikori on Wednesday. Against Milos Raonic of Canada in Saturday's semifinals, Murray saved a match point during a tense victory that took 3 hours 38 mi
nutes. By contrast, Djokovic needed 6 hours 33 minutes for his four victories, including a 61, 61 drubbing of Nishikori in the semifinals of the tourn
ament. Their divergent seasons had come down, fittingly, to the final match of the year. After an uneasy start, Murray controlled patterns from the ba
seline, particularly on his forehand. He kept rallies shorter than usual, was broken just once late in the second set, and came up with several big se
rves on crucial points. Djokovic, by contrast, lacked his usual pinpoint footwork and depth of shot. He appeared uncertain at key moments and hit 30 u
nforced errors many off his vaunted backhand to just 15 by Murray. More than anything, he felt comfortable in the rallies and exactly knew what to do,
 said Djokovic, who finished No. 1 in four of the past six years. On the other hand, I hesitated, and it didn't work. For his part, Murray said he was
 lucky I got it finished in two sets. Murray had never beaten Djokovic in four previous matches indoors, and he still trails in their overall headtohe
ad record, 2411.