Arrests Made in Spain After Tennis Match-Fixing Inquiry
MADRID - The Spanish police arrested 34 people suspected of being involved in a criminal betting organization that fixed tennis matches in tournaments held in Spain and Portugal.
The bets were placed on men's matches in at least 17 tournaments and yielded profits of more than half a million euros, the police said in a statement on Thursday.
The arrests, resulting from an investigation that began in 2014, took place in several Spanish cities. The network paid bribes to players to get them to throw matches, using as an intermediary a former tennis player who knew the players involved. The matches, mostly in Spain, were part of the Futures and Challenger circuits, lower tiers of the men's pro tour.
Six tennis players and two people believed to have led the match-fixing network were among those arrested in Seville, the capital of the southern region of Andalusia, and La Coruña, in northwestern Spain.
The Spanish police did not name the players or other detainees. These aren't well-known players, a police official said, adding that the players fell between 800 and 1,200 in the world rankings.
Match-fixing has become a major concern in tennis, particularly at the game's lower professional levels. Under pressure to tackle the problem more forcefully, tennis officials agreed last January to authorize an independent review of the sport's integrity efforts and committed to adopting all of the review panel's recommendations when they are issued next year.
The Spanish police investigation was based on a tip from the Tennis Integrity Unit, which is charged with fighting fraud. Based in London, the agency is funded by the sport's seven major stakeholders: the International Tennis Federation, the ATP Tour, the WTA Tour and the four Grand Slam tournaments.
The integrity unit, which has doubled its staff to 10 since January, began releasing quarterly reports with updates on player sanctions and match alerts on suspicious betting it received from regulators and betting organizations. In the latest report, released in October, there were 96 alerts from the 35,041 professional matches played; 85 came from the Challenger and Futures tours.
This year, the unit has announced the suspensions of five players, most ranked outside the top 1,000, for breaches to the anticorruption program, which include betting on tennis.