They sound like the kind of arsenal controlled by a Bond villain - twin-hulled megaships, underwater
 lasers, robot submarines and diamond saws. But they are, in fact, the kind of tools that engineers 
will need to dispose of hundreds of the soon-to-be-derelict oil and gas platforms littering the Nort
h Sea. While clean, green offshore wind farms increasingly begin to populate the North Sea - there a
re now 3,000 of them there - the area's once-mighty oil and gas platforms, which helped fuel Europe'
s economy for the best part of 40 years, are facing an ignominious end in the breaker's yards. But g
etting them there is going to be hellishly difficult. At issue is the fact that North Sea hydrocarbo
n reserves are depleting, and many hundreds of oil and gas rigs are approaching the end of their pro
ductive lives. And the emptier their wells get, the more the rigs cost to keep running, says Richard
 Neilson, a physicist specialising in offshore technologies at the University of Aberdeen. Helping f
uel this downward economic spiral is the enduringly low oil price, which now has one-third of oil fi
elds operating at a loss. Add in the uncertainties following Britain's vote to leave the EU, and the
 result, says business newswire Bloomberg, is a slump that is fuelling a rash of North Sea platform 
shutdowns. But there's just one problem: rigs cannot just be shut down. Under a 15-nation protocol c
alled the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North East Atlantic, known 
simply as Ospar, which came into force in March 1998, offshore platforms cannot be disposed of at se
a or simply be left to rust and fall to pieces, as they risk damaging fragile marine ecosystems. Osp
ar's measures are largely the result of a spat between Shell and Greenpeace after the pressure group
 occupied Shell's Brent Spar - a floating oil storage buoy at which tankers would load up on crude -
 to stop it being sunk and disposed of at sea in 1995. "The legislation that came into effect after 
Brent Spar is what drives North Sea decommissioning," says Neilson. Ospar demands the massive supers
tructure of a platform has to somehow be removed and returned to shore for recycling. This "topside"
 includes the entire working core of the oil or gas rig, the drilling, production and processing mod
ules, the helicopter deck and the accommodation for the crew. Next, the rig's subsea support structu
re has to be dealt with. This can be either an ultra-heavy "gravity-based" concrete foundation that 
may include concrete oil storage cells. Or it could comprise a substructure of massive steel legs an
d a braced steel frame - a combination dubbed the "jacket". The rig's support structure has to be co
mpletely removed if it weighs less than 10,000 tonnes - but if the platform is heavier, and was buil
t before 1999 before removal was considered part of rig designs, oil and gas companies can try and m
ake what's called a "derogation" case allowing them to leave much of it in place. Because they are b
uilt to withstand hurricane force winds and the most turbulent of high seas, however, there is nothi
ng remotely simple about breaking up and removing an offshore platform. Doing so at the required sca
le will require a panoply of technologies over the next couple of decades, some of which have yet to
 be invented. And that scale is profound: there are currently 470 oil or gas rigs and 3,000 pipeline
s in need of decommissioning - and 5,000 wells that need plugging with cement to depths of thousands
 of metres. The topsides weigh typically in the tens of thousands of tonnes - with, for example, She
ll's Brent Delta platform's topside weighing in at a cool 24,000 tonnes. To get across the scale of 
the problem the industry likes comparisons with buildings. The removal of nine Norwegian rigs from t
he Ekofisk field, for instance, involves removal of 113,500 tonnes of steel - "equivalent to the wei
ght of 54 London Eyes", says the Royal Academy of Engineering. However, that pales compared to just 
one of Shell's concrete-legged structures in the Brent field. "Our structures weigh 300,000 tonnes, 
the same as the Empire State Building," says Duncan Manning, decommissioning manager for Royal Dutch
 Shell's Brent field. The first job highly unglamorous job in the decommissioning process, says Mann
ing, is to plug the well. "To do that, the platform mills out the steel casing in the well tube so t
hat there is a rock-to-rock barrier that prevents any hydrocarbon leakage when the cement hardens...